# Open a Remote Shell Session into the MongoDB Pod

OpenShift provides *Remote Shell* capabilities from both the command line and from the web console.

With the `oc rsh` command, you can issue commands as if you are inside the container and perform local operations like monitoring, debugging, and using CLI commands specific to what is running in the container.

???+ Information
    For example, if you open a remote shell session into a MySQL container, you can count the number of records in the database by invoking the mysql command, then using the prompt to type in the SELECT command. You can also use commands like ps(1) and ls(1) for validation.

With the MongoDB application you deployed, you can `rsh` into the MongoDB pod to run `mongo` CLI commands.

1. **Enter the following command** to rsh into the container:

    ```bash
    oc rsh mongodb-1-XXXXX
    ```

    Where `XXXXX` is your unique string of 5 characters

    ???+ example "Example Output"

        ```bash
        user01@lab061:~$ oc rsh mongodb-1-r8dpw
        $ 
        ```

    This new line that *does not* start with `userNN@lab061` indicates that you are now in the remote shell session for the pod

    !!! Important
        If you wait too long to interact with the remote shell (about a minute), it will automatically time-out and you will have to re-connect. You can tell that this happened if the      prompt reappears. 

1. In the remote session, **issue the command**:

    ```bash
    mongo
    ```

    ???+ example "Example Output"

        ```bash
        $ mongo
        MongoDB shell version v4.2.5
        connecting to: mongodb://127.0.0.1:27017/?compressors=disabled&gssapiServiceName=mongodb
        Implicit session: session { "id" : UUID("2320e01b-168e-41d0-a132-af0c9243d29c") }
        MongoDB server version: 4.2.5
        Welcome to the MongoDB shell.
        For interactive help, type "help".
        For more comprehensive documentation, see
            http://docs.mongodb.org/
        Questions? Try the support group
            http://groups.google.com/group/mongodb-user
        ```

    `mongo` is the shell command for MongoDB. Issuing the `mongo` command without any options or flags connects you to a MongoDB instance running on your localhost with port 27017. If you see this message, MongoDB is up and running in the container.

1. **Exit the MongoDB shell by entering the command**:

    ```bash
    exit
    ```

1. **Exit the remote shell session by entering, once again**:

    ```bash
    exit
    ```

    You should be back in the `userNN@lab061` command line.
